what is the solution to the global
economic collapse that's what we're
going to talk about today I recently did
a video about this topic and we
discussed how having your own
self-sufficient environment is the best
way to evade the collapse a lot of
people however didn't like this idea and
they said I don't want to live out in
the middle of the forest that's not the
life for me
they had excuses about why this can't be
done about how they live in a cold
environment it's not possible about how
the government will take your land away
about how you're not allowed to do one
thing or the other and so I thought to
myself I really need to hammer this home
to ensure that everybody understands
what the money GPS is all about many
many years ago I started reading
Austrian economics I got into other
topics as well along the way I read many
books even Keynesian books started
building up my knowledge and as the
years progressed on I continued to read
and I continued to then start my youtube
channel wrote my books and so forth so
what I learned along the way is that we
have times of crisis we have times of
prosperity and everybody knows this
along the way however some people get
rich some people aren't so lucky the
general consensus would be that you
invest for the long term and that's
pretty much a general rule of thumb for
all investment companies don't worry
about any sort of issues that we have
along the way just keep your money in
there you'll do fine okay so let's say
that that's the way everything works but
for me
I don't like to really play around I
like to look at it for what it is what
is the purpose of money
do you like the paper do you like the
digital bank account that you have and
you can see the zeros and the ones and
the decimal places is that fun if it is
then well enjoy but ultimately I think
the average person would say that they
want money to buy things that they need
their food their shelter that's what
money's for simply a means to an end so
why would we go and chase money when we
can have all the things that we need to
buy with that money or at least some of
that we can get it from our own
environment if you lived in a place that
a tropical place let's say and it had a
thousand fruit trees would you need to
go to the store to buy your fruit if it
was just available right in your
backyard probably not so all of a sudden
you're spending less money and this
applies to other things as well if you
had your own source of water do you need
to necessarily have you know pay a
monthly bill for your water maybe not
depends on the situation but if you can
provide for yourself doesn't that seem
like a more safe and secure way to deal
with things than to rely on someone else
whatever that is to me that's the way I
see it becoming self-sufficient now
maybe you live in an area where doesn't
get that much sunlight so solar panels
may not be the best thing but there are
other forms of alternative energy and
maybe you don't want to or you won't be
able to get a hundred percent of the
power from your shoulder but can you get
50 maybe can you get 40 or 30 you know
it depends on where you live depends on
so many
but don't discount what I'm telling you
simply because the fact that we are
running into an environment where nobody
knows what's going to happen there are a
lot of people who claim they don't
that's for sure
I will definitely agree with that and I
for one I don't know what's going to
happen if you're looking for a guru
we've come to the wrong place
if you're looking for a financial expert
that claims they know everything that
tells you to invest in Facebook and
Amazon you've come to the wrong place
I'm here to look at the average person
you and I why do we need this money
thing and how do we best handle it
that's the way I look at it my you know
I obviously am fully engaged in the
subject and yet you know I wrote two
books about it okay
and yet I want to do away with the
monetary system everybody wants to go to
the you know I want the gold standard on
what do you want with the gold backing I
want to go to a cryptocurrency
environment I want to have this or that
and then you have the government saying
we need to go to an SDR there's a lot of
talk the way I look at it as I don't
know what anybody else is doing they're
all deciding they're all fighting
they're all arguing the stocks go up to
stocks go down the real estate goes up
and down interest rates and everything
else and meanwhile I'm just saying look
I need somewhere to live I need
something to eat I need to drink water I
need to be able to bathe myself I need
the basic fundamentals and if I want
something else if I have a little bit of
money a little bit of savings well then
I can use that to buy things like an
iPhone or or whatever things that people
want now isn't it better than trying to
just chase more and more and more and
more and more money because you know
your energy prices are going to go up
you know your food prices are going to
go up so why not help reduce the amount
that that is basically going to be
affected by
basically have that in your own power
and do that on your own and I understand
people are saying I don't want to be a
farmer look there was a lot of comments
on there that just you know anyway what
I said on that video was you need to
provide for your own family you're not
providing for the whole city for the
whole state of province what you're
doing is reducing your monthly expenses
and whatever ways that you feel you can
do that then you should do that there's
so many ways in my second book I got
into that there are so many things and
one of those things was solar panels
people are saying I can't afford so it
can't do it in that video I talked about
the fact that you can get a company to
come in and they will install them for
you for free you get the solar for free
but any access they will take it for
themselves you got to look this up for
wherever you live every city and state
province and country they're all
different they have different laws but
you can do that you can get tax breaks
you can get everything so why not check
it out that's all I'm saying my whole
point of that video was basically to
talk to the people who are always saying
what are the solutions because we always
talk about you know sort of the negative
aspects or maybe we just look at things
and we say look things are not really
good the way they are projecting this
out to us so I say why don't we do
something about it but instead of going
there and going to Capitol Hill and you
know the protests and everything else
why don't we do this from the grassroots
why don't you and I engage on this on
our own
in our own backyard literally and decide
that we need to make a difference right
here for ourselves and then hopefully
that spreads to everyone else I hope you
understand where I'm coming from
this if you haven't seen the video
already maybe I'll put it down in the
description essentially what I wanted to
get to was we need to evade the monetary
system if you want to do well don't try
and basically beat the street as they
say evade the system altogether or
minimize how much dependence you have on
this if you have a lot of debt you're
dependent on the system if you owe a lot
to somebody else
they are your owners they own you so
don't do that we need to be able to
become as self-sufficient as possible do
what we can if you only did 5% more than
you're doing today well then you've done
great because you've made a step forward
in the right direction for me I know
what I want I talked about it on that
video I know many people had the same
feelings as me and I do just want to say
thank you to all those people if you
have criticisms constructive criticism
of course that's great but we shouldn't
just say no can't do it ok forget it
forget it can't do it's not possible
well those are limiting beliefs and you
shouldn't get yourself involved in those
so I know that you guys can do this
because there's so many intelligent
people that I've communicated with over
the years and it's just been a great
time it's been certainly ups and downs
along the way but I do appreciate each
and every single one of you and I want
you to know what's going on in my head
while I'm doing the other videos because
yes I can tell you look as long as the
central banks are printing money Amazon
stock it's probably going to continue to
rise is that valuable to you maybe but
that's really not what this is about
this channel there's are a lot of people
out there they'll tell you which stocks
to invest in and when and when to sell
and how far
go up and down or everything else it's
up to you you could take this
information for yourself make use of it
and I'll leave it at that if you found
this video informative please give me a
thumbs up and that's basically where I
want to leave it if you want to check
out the other video if you haven't
already I will leave it in the
description of this video so you can
check it for yourself
take care